---
output: pdf_document
---
## Techniques for Leakage detecting

there are several techniques for detecting where leakage is occurring in distribution systems or transpot lines. These include

- random or regular sounding surveys,
- step-testing on an isolated branch pipeline or partial system,
- temporarily placed correlating acoustic leak noise loggers,
- temporarily and permanently placed acoustic monitors, and
- analytic hydraulic methods using temporary or permanent hydraulic monitors.

Regular or random sounding surveys are time-consuming and not always effective in focusing on areas with potential leaks. This is because leakage technicians may end up looking for leaks in sections of the network where they are not prevalent. Step-testing is usually conducted in a region (DMA) of leakage, going branch by branch. Step testing involves the operation of valves to change flow and observe changes in hydraulics. If the flow between the water source and a leak is restricted, flow will decrease and pressure will increase. Step testing is generally undertaken during the period of minimum night flow (MNF), which often occurs between 1:00am and 4:00am. One reason for this is to avoid supply interruptions to the majority of customers.

Other options include employing acoustic loggers or monitors with a reporting system either installed across a network or deployed at certain points as part of planned leakage reduction activities. These options can be expensive and, as a result, the number of units purchased is limited and each unit is deployed at multiple locations as a matter of practice. Acoustic monitors that do not correlate, but report or analyze noise in leak frequencies, can either log data for retrieval in the field or be conveyed on a daily basis by a communication network such as AMI transmitters, WIFI, or SCADA. These systems have software systems that help identify leak suspects and display the data.

The effectiveness of acoustic loggers in sensing leaks can also be reduced by any planned pressure reduction in operation and/or the replacement of ferrous mains with plastic ones. Both factors limit the amount of noise generated by leaks and subsequently reduce the acoustic logger’s capacity to “hear” the leaks. Evidence suggests that noise does not travel well from a leak through multiple materials to nearby sensors. This may be partially overcome by increasing the density of sensors, but may prevent a monitor from hearing a local leak.

# Leakage detection methods

## Leakage awareness methods

The term ‘leak awareness’ is used to explain the discovery of a leak in a particular area within the network. It does not give any information about its precise location. Usually a hydraulic model is needed for the leakage awareness test. Various hydraulic models have been proposed to detect leaks in water distribution systems. Those methods usually involve
calibration/optimisation techniques to analyse the different areas of the network.

## Leakage localisation methods

Leak localising is an activity that identifies and prioritises the areas of leakage to make pinpointing of leaks easier. Some methods/techniques that belong to this group are: 

- acoustic logging,
- step-testing,
- ground motion sensors and
- ground penetrating radars.

# Leakage control models

Leakage control models can be generally classified into the following two main groups:

(a) passive (reactive) leakage control and 
(b) active leakage control.

### Leakage Hydraulic

Leakage has long been recognized as pressure-dependent flow leaving water distribution pipelines. The greater the pressure is at a leakage spot, the greater the leakage. It is important to be able to model the leakages in an analysis model in order to capture the system-wide characteristics of network hydraulics. However, the exact magnitude of a leakage depends on not only the local pressure head, but also many other factors. Due to the high level of uncertainty, leakage has been modeled in different ways, including conventional nodal demand, orifice flow based on emitter hydraulics, pressure-dependent demand (PDD), and distributed demands along pipelines [Wu, Zheng].

Leakage flow is usually unknown underground, but it is the pressurized flow that can be represented as orifice flow. Its hydraulic behavior can be characterized by using the orifice flow equation.

$$ Q=C_d A \sqrt{2gH} $$

Where:

* $Q$   is the orifice discharge
* $C_d$ is the orifice discharge coefficient 
* $A$   is the orifice cross-sectional area 
* $H$   is the pressure head loss between the upstream and downstream sides of the orifice 
* $g$   is the gravitational acceleration

Applying the orifice flow equation is valid, but the characteristics of leakage discharge are more complicated than that of orifice flow. The behavior of a leakage flow depends on many factors including pipe materials, types of leakages, leak/ crack openings, pipe sizes, and soil hydraulics. In addition, both the discharge coefficient and equivalent orifice area change in a certain way as the pressure changes.

### Leakage Detection via Hydraulic Model Calibration

Leveraging a hydraulic model for leakage detection is attractive to the water engineering community. It brings multiple benefits of localizing leakage hotspots/ areas and improving hydraulic model calibration. However, it is difficult to develop an effective methodology of leakage detection via hydraulic model calibration. The real breakthroughs came with the development of the parameter estimation methods or inverse modeling techniques for simultaneously identifying possible leakage and other model parameters.

With the advent of district meter areas (DMAs), advanced metering technology, and emergent computing methods, the research in developing system analysis methods for leakage detection can be classified into two categories, namely:

1. Identification of the whereabouts and size of existing or old leaks in a DMA or water distribution system.
2. Alerts regarding new pipe bursts or novelties generally occurring within the monitored distribution system, e.g., a DMA.

While it is important to be alerted about a new leak or pipe burst occurring in a distribution system, detecting existing or old leaks is the primary task for a water utility due to the high leakage rates present in most of the water systems.

